sl beta docs (#3705)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/sl-manifest.md

---
title: "Semantic manifest"
id: sl-manifest

> description: "Learn about the semantic manifest.json file and how you can use artifacts to gain insights about your Semantic Layer."

Reviewer: fantastic short description! just one nit

```suggestion
description: "Learn about the semantic manifest.json file and how you can use artifacts to gain insights about your dbt Semantic Layer."
```

tags: [Semantic Layer, APIs]
sidebar_label: "Semantic manifest"
---

<VersionBlock lastVersion="1.5">

import LegacyInfo from '/snippets/_legacy-sl-callout.md';

<LegacyInfo />

</VersionBlock>

> dbt creates an [artifact](/reference/artifacts/dbt-artifacts) file called the "Semantic Manifest" (`semantic_manifest.json`), which MetricFlow requires to build and run metric queries properly for the Semantic Layer. This artifact contains comprehensive information about your Semantic Layer. It is an internal file, that acts as the integration point with MetricFlow. 

Reviewer: is it "dbt Semantic Layer" or "Semantic Layer"? i thought it was the former but unsure 🤷‍♀️ 

it's written as a proper noun (with caps), implying it's a product name, so suggest "dbt Semantic Layer". for example, "your dbt Cloud account" versus "your Cloud account" 

```suggestion
dbt creates an [artifact](/reference/artifacts/dbt-artifacts) file called the _Semantic Manifest_ (`semantic_manifest.json`), which MetricFlow requires to build and run metric queries properly for the dbt Semantic Layer. This artifact contains comprehensive information about your dbt Semantic Layer. It is an internal file that acts as the integration point with MetricFlow. 
```

Author: i asked the same question and they said it could be both, particularly when we're using it multiple times on page.

> By using the semantic manifest produced by dbt Core, MetricFlow will instantiate a data flow plan and generate SQL from Semantic Layer query requests. You can it as a valuable reference to understand the structure and details of your data models.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By using the semantic manifest produced by dbt Core, MetricFlow will instantiate a data flow plan and generate SQL from Semantic Layer query requests. It's a valuable reference that you can use to understand the structure and details of your data models.
```

Similar to the [`manifest.json` file](/reference/artifacts/manifest-json), the `semantic_manifest.json` also lives in the `/target` directory of your dbt project. This is where dbt stores various artifacts (such as compiled models and tests) generated during the execution of your project.

## How it's produced 

The `semantic_manifest.json` is produced whenever your dbt project is parsed. The easiest way to generate the file yourself is to run `dbt parse`. Since `dbt run`, `dbt build`, and `dbt compile` all parse your dbt project, these commands will generate a semantic manifest as well. 

> QUESTIONS:

Author: ```suggestion
## Top level keys

Top-level keys for the semantic manifest are:
-  `semantic_models` &mdash; Starting points of data with entities, dimensions, and measures, and correspond to models in your dbt project. 
-  `metrics` &mdash; Functions combining measures, constraints, and so on to define quantitative indicators.
- `project_configuration` &mdash; Contains information around your project configurations 
```

- WHAT IS IT PRODUCED BY?
- WHAT ARE THE TOP LEVEL KEYS?
- HOW DOES IT RELATED TO THE [JSON SCHEMA FILE](https://schemas.getdbt.com/)?

<details>

> <summary><code>target/semantic_manifest.json</code> file </summary>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<summary>Example <code>target/semantic_manifest.json</code> file </summary>
```

            },
            "entities": ["entities in the semantic model"],
            "measures": ["measures in the semantic model"],
            "dimensions": ["dimensions in the semantic model" ],
    "metrics": [
        {
            "name": "name of the metric",
            "description": "metric description",
            "type": "metric type",
            "type_params": {
                "measure": {"measures for the metric"},
                "numerator": null,
                "denominator": null,
                "expr": null,
                "window": null,
                "grain_to_date": null,
                "metrics": ["metrics used in defining the metric. this is used in derived metrics"],
                "input_measures": []
            },
            "filter": null,
            "metadata": null
        }
    ],
    "project_configuration": {
        "time_spine_table_configurations": [
            {
                "location": "fully qualified table name for timespine",
                "column_name": "date column",
                "grain": "day"
            }
        ],
        "metadata": null,
        "dsi_package_version": {}
    }
}
```

> </details>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

</details>
```

## Related docs

- [dbt Semantic Layer API](/docs/dbt-cloud-apis/sl-api-overview)
- [About dbt artifacts](/reference/artifacts/dbt-artifacts)

> 

Reviewer: whoa! i've never seen this red color before

Author: what! me too!

Reviewer 2: The code was missing closing `]` and closing `}` so I added them!

-  `metrics` &mdash; Functions combining measures, constraints, and so on to define quantitative indicators.
- `project_configuration` &mdash; Contains information around your project configurations 

<details>
<summary>Example <code>target/semantic_manifest.json</code> file </summary>

```json
{
    "semantic_models": [
        {
            "name": "semantic model name",
            "defaults": null,
            "description": "semantic model description",
            "node_relation": {
                "alias": "model alias",
                "schema_name": "model schema",
                "database": "model db",
                "relation_name": "Fully qualified relation name"
            },
            "entities": ["entities in the semantic model"],
            "measures": ["measures in the semantic model"],
            "dimensions": ["dimensions in the semantic model" ],
    "metrics": [
        {
            "name": "name of the metric",
            "description": "metric description",
            "type": "metric type",
            "type_params": {

>                 "measure": {"measures for the metric"},

Reviewer 2: @Jstein77  should this line be something like:
>   "measure": {"measures for the metric": "measure"},

Reviewer 3: Good catch! I was trying to simplify the input inside the measures dictionary, but you're right it's not valid json. Let's add the following:
```
                "measure": {
                    "name": "name for measue",
                    "filter": "filter for measure",
                    "alias": "alias for measure
                },
```

Reviewer 2: Thanks Jordan! I will add that. I guess it works with the arrays because it's structured correctly.
